= oVirt Ruby SDK

== Introduction

The oVirt Ruby SDK is a Ruby gem that simplyfies access to the oVirt
Engine API.

== Building

The SDK uses http://www.xmlsoft.org[libxml2] for parsing and rendering
XML documents, and the part that interacts with this library is written
in C. This means that before building you must make sure you have the C
compiler and the required header and libraries files installed in your
system. For example to install with the `yum` package manager you will
need to do the following:

  # yum -y install \
  gcc \
  libxml2-devel \
  ruby-devel \
  rubygem-rake-compiler \
  rubygems-devel

Most of the source code of the Ruby SDK is automatically generated from
the API model.

The code generator is a Java program that resides in the `generator`
directory.  This Java program will get the API model and the metamodel
artifacts from the available Maven repositories. To build and run it use
the following commands:

  $ git clone git://gerrit.ovirt.org/ovirt-engine-sdk-ruby
  $ cd ovirt-engine-sdk-ruby
  $ mvn package

This will build the code generator, run it to generate the SDK for the
version of the API that corresponds to the branch of the SDK that you
are using, and build the `.gem` file.

If you need to generate it for a different version of the API then you
can use the `model.version` property. For example, if you need to
generate the SDK for version `4.1.0` of the SDK you can use this
command:

  $ mvn package -Dmodel.version=4.1.0

The generated `.gem` file will be located in the `sdk` directory:

  $ ls sdk/*.gem
  sdk/ovirt-engine-sdk-4.0.0.alpha0.gem

== Testing

The test suite of the project is inside the `sdk/spec` directory. By
default, when the project is built, only a subset of the tests is
executed, those that don't require a live engine and network
connectivity.

To run the tests that require a live engine you will need to have an
oVirt engine up and running, put the connection details into the
`spec/parameters.yaml` file and run the `rspec` command line tool with
the the `--tag integration` option:

  $ cd sdk
  $ cat > spec/parameters.yaml <<.
  default_url: https://myengine.example.com/ovirt-engine/api
  default_user: admin@internal
  default_password: mypassword
  default_debug: false
  .
  $ rspec --tag integration

The `default_debug` option is translated into the `:debug` parameter of
the constructor of the `Connection` class used for the integration tests
that perform actual HTTP requests. If set to `true` all the sent and
received HTTP messages will be sent to the standard output.
